[Adaptive_Treadmill-Assisted_Virtual_Reality-Based_Gait_Rehabilitation_for_Post-Stroke_Physical_Reconditioninga_Feasibility_Study_in_Low-Resource_Settings.pdf]
dysfunction and gait disorders (associated with increased energy expenditure) besides psychological factors, e.g., motivation. To recondition their cardiovascular endurance and gait, rehabilitation exercises with gradually increasing exercise intensity suiting their individualized capabilities need to be offered. In principal accordance, here we (i) implemented an adaptive Virtual Reality (VR)-based treadmill-assisted platform sensitive to energy expenditure, (ii) investigated its safety and feasibility of use and (iii) examined the implications of gait exercise with this platform on cardiac and gait performance along with energy expenditure, clinical measures (to estimate physical reconditioning of subjects with stroke) and their views on community ambulation capabilities. Methods: Ten able-bodied subjects volunteered in a study to ensure its safety and feasibility of use. Nine subjects with chronic stroke underwent physical reconditioning over multiple exposures using our platform. We investigated the patients’ cardiac and gait performance prior and post exposure to our platform along with studying the clinical relevance of gait parameters in estimating their physical reconditioning. We collected the patients’ feedback. Results: We found statistical improvement in the gait parameters and reduction in energy expenditure during overground walk following ∼1 month of gait exercise with our platform. They reported that the VR-based tasks were motivating. Conclusion:

[Characterizing Freezing of Gait Episodes for Parkinson’s Disease Using a Wearable Device Quantifying Gait and Posture.pdf]
motor, cognitive and environmental factors can trigger freezing. Investigators have been focusing on studying different gait- related indices, e.g., Step Time, Double Limb Support Time and postural indices, e.g., Knee Flexion of these individuals while walking under different task conditions and turning on a pathway. However, none of the existing studies have focused on identifying specific gait-related and postural indices that can be used to characterize one’s FoG (under free living condi- tions) and distinguish freezing episodes from those in which no freezing occurs using wearable and non-wearable systems. This is important since once the freezing episodes are characterized and identified, it will enable systems to autonomously adopt measures for addressing occurrence of such episodes.

[Design of Instrumented Shoes for Gait Characterization A Usability Study With Healthy and Post-stroke Hemiplegic Individuals.pdf]
ait parameters for both healthy and post-stroke hemiplegic participants, (ii) Validate the temporal and spatial gait parameters of healthy participants using VICON and paper- based setup, respectively, during one’s over-ground walk and (iii) Use ShoesFSR to quantify and paper-based setup to validate the spatial gait parameters of post-stroke hemiplegic participants. This paper is organized as follows: section Materials and

[Design_of_SmartWalk_for_Estimating_Implication_of_Pathway_With_Turn_and_Task_Condition_on_Postural_and_Gait_Indices_Relevance_to_Fear_of_Fall.pdf]
uals with Parkinson’s Disease (PD). The variability in knee ﬂexion (postural index) during heel-strike and toe-off events while walking can be related to one’s FoF. Depending on the progression of the disease, gait abnormality can be manifested as start/turn/stop hesitation, etc. adversely affecting one’s cadence along with an inability to trans- fer weight from one leg to the other. Also, task demands can have implications on one’s gait and posture. Given that individuals with PD often suffer from FoF and their dynamic balance is affected by task conditions and path- ways, in-depth investigation is warranted to understand the implications of task condition and pathways on one’s gait and posture. This necessitates use of portable, wearable device that can capture one’s gait-related indices and knee ﬂexion in free-living conditions. Here, we have designed a portable, wearable and cost-effective device (SmartWalk) comprisingof instrumentedShoes integratedwith knee ﬂex- ion recorder units.

[GaitWEAR_An_Augmented_Wearable_System_for_Gait_Quantification.pdf]
ociated with observation-based methods, researchers have been using technology-assisted systems, e.g., motion capture and pressure-mat systems. Despite offering high accuracy, these systems entail high cost, reduced porta- bility, and confinement to controlled settings. To overcome such challenges, wearable solutions are being explored. Specifically, currently existing systems with only inertial measurement units (IMUs) have been used to quantify gait. Alternately, researchers have used instrumented shoes with insoles impregnated with varying force sensors to quantify one’s gait. This offers a direct measure of temporal parame- ters of gait, while spatial and spatiotemporal parameters of gait are derived from the temporal measures and information on the pathway being traversed. Augmenting instrumented shoes with IMUs can offer an avenue to get a direct measure of the spatial, temporal, and spatiotemporal parameters of gait. Motivated by this alternate approach, we present an integrated system (GaitWEAR) comprising of instrumented shoes and IMUs. Subsequently, we evaluated the performance of GaitWEAR and that of the currently existing system having only IMUs (only IMU-based system) while comparing their performances (in terms of gait parameters) with state-of-the-art pressure-mat-based system.

[Investigating the feasibility of cerebellar transcranial direct current stimulation to facilitate post-stroke overground gait performance in chronic stroke a partial least-squares regression approach.pdf]
ion of the effects of ctDCS on clinical gait and balance measures, as well as its multivariate regression analysis using the quan- titative gait-related indices and the lobular electric field distribution, (iii) investigation of the differential effects of the two ctDCS montages on the clinical balance and gait measures, as well as quantitative gait-related indices including Step Length [33], Walk Ratio [34], Gait Stability Ratio [35], Symmetry Index [36], and other relevant gait parameters [37]. Materials and

[On-Demand_Cueing_Sensitive_to_Step_Variability_Understanding_Its_Impact_on_Gait_of_Individuals_With_Parkinsons_Disease.pdf]
ing symptoms. The FoG episode is often preceded by an increase in variability in Step Time. As the disease progresses, such gait impairment may become resistant to pharmacotherapy. Use of external cues is an alternative. Existing solutions deliver external cues in a continuous manner that might cause habituation effects, thereby emphasizing the need for on-demand cueing. Manual on-demand cueing upon freezing has been shown to be powerful in bringing an individual out of a freezing state. This can be achieved if one’s proneness to freeze before entering into freezing state can be sensed, and in-turn triggering an external cue on-demand. Motivated by this, we have developed a wearable device (SmartWalkVC) that can sense such proneness based on variability in Step Time to offer a visual cue on-demand. We conducted a study involving 20 age-matched healthy individuals and those with PD who walked overground while wearing SmartWalkVC operated in three modes with regard to offering visual cue, namely (a) On-demand cueing, (b) Continuous cueing and (c) No cueing. The

[The Implication of Pathway Turn and Task Condition on Gait Quantified Using SmartWalk Changes With Age and Parkinson’s Disease With Relevance to Postural Strategy and Risk of Fall.pdf]
ective in aﬀecting the gait of (a) individuals belonging to diﬀerent age groups and (b) age and gender-matched healthy older adults, and individuals with PD, (ii) study the variations of knee joint angles synchronized with gait events, while walking overground on pathways having turned and under diﬀerent task conditions in terms of its clinical relevance, and (iii) explore the implication of pathway turn angles on one’s counting performance under the dual-task condition with relevance to postural control strategy from the perspective of age and neurological disorder, such as PD. This paper is organized as follows: The section on materials and

[Understanding the implication of task conditions on asymmetry in gait of post-stroke individuals using an Integrated Wearable System.pdf]
plicit) and gait-related (explicit) measures (offering complementary information on one’s gait) while walking. Added to hemiplegia, such asymmetry can be aggravated while walking under varying task conditions, namely, walking without speak- ing (single task), walking while counting backwards (dual task), and walking while holding an object and counting backwards (multiple task). This emphasizes the need to quantify the extent of aggravated implication of multiple-task and dual-task on gait asymmetry compared to single task. Here, we used Integrated Wearable System and carried out a study with a group of age-matched hemiplegic (Grp_S) and healthy (Grp_H) individuals to understand the potential of our system in quantifying asymmetry in explicit and implicit measures of gait, implication of hemiplegic condition and varying task conditions on these asymmetry measures along with their clinical relevance.
